# Epileptic Seizure Detection - Final Year Project


The epileptic seizure is generally described as a disease where a person loses all the control of his/her body resulting in jerking movement and rise in heartbeat and temperature. These seizures are very common and can occur at any point in life. The epileptic seizures are the leading cause of the existing and future neurological dysfunction leading to stroke. Approximately, 1.5% of the world's population is suffering from epilepsy disease. Although, there are many drugs available in the market, nevertheless, they are not absolutely treating epilepsy.The situation makes patients suffer an uncertain routine without the availability of the monitoring and prevention method to control the seizures with predicting the events in advance. Children are most likely to have these seizures and are generally more difficult to detect; since they are small and can't notify others of their problem. The seizures are very strong and can result in severe damage to the body. The damage can be as severe as fractures. 

The invention consists of an epileptic seizure prediction method which uses input data from the integration of accelerometer, pulse sensor, and a temperature sensor arranged on the fingers of the user. 

The invention also consists of a wearable device to monitor and predict epileptic Seizures, comprising of an accelerometer, pulse sensor, temperature, sensor and an integrated circuit board consisting of an electronic processor, a battery, Bluetooth, and a wireless transmission module. Said device will be calculating the occurrence and impact of epileptic seizures in real time through integrated data calculated using the described sensors. Among the major advantages of the invention is real-time impact calculation of seizure along with detection in the movement of the body, monitoring and prediction of seizure in advance by using only the accelerometer, pulse sensor, and temperature sensor; and portability of the device. 
